---
title: Any deck, any time
date: 2025-07-05
tags:
  - impromptu
  - sleight of hand
---

You can use any deck for this trick. The spectator can shuffle the card.

Start by cutting the deck into 3 approximately equal piles. Ask the spectator to
choose one of these : he can look at the top card. Next, turn this pile
upside-down and put it between the 2 others back together. The spectator can do
all of this too behind your back to give them a sens of control.

Ask now the spectator to cut the deck in half. Be sure that they cut on a
face-up card. If they can, the spectator can do a riffle shuffle, otherwise you
can do it. They can finally choose to turn the deck or not.

You can show the deck is shuffled to the spectator, and at the same time, look
for a big chunk of cards facing the same direction.

- If the big chunk is face-up, the spectator's card is the first face-down card
  below.
- If the big chunk is face-down, the spectator's card is the first face-up card
  above.

> [!note]
>
> You now have 2 options. One is more of a slow reveal, whereas the other is
> more lazy, so you need to do a great performance.

## Option 1 : Slow reveal

Cut the deck 2 cards above the spectator's card. Do a break with your pinky
finger below the 3rd card, in order to do a double lift. Say you will deal 2
piles on the table, one with face-up cards, and the other with face-down cards.
Ask the spectator to say "stop" whenever they see their card, which won't
happen.

You can show the deck in which the spectator's card is not to prove them their
card has disappeared.

Put the 2 decks back together by turning one of them upside-down, in order to
put the spectator's card in the middle. You can do a little wave with your hands
if you want, and spread the deck. The only card facing a different direction
will be the spectator's selected card.

## Option 2 : Read mind

If you want a simpler reveal, you can simply spread the cards and look for the
spectator's one using instructions above.

Say you will try to read the spectator's mind, or their facial expressions.
Proceed by eliminating slowly the cards facing differently, then by little
chunks.

You can insist on the "reading minds" aspect once you have only a few cards
left.

This reveal is great for shorter tricks if someone ask you one.
