---
title: Triumph
tags:
  - impromptu
  - 52 cards
  - sleight of hand
---

This tricks needs **52** cards, without joker, which the spectator can shuffle.
Bend the cards a little bit if you feel they're too flat.

Start by asking the spectatpr to choose a card, and to remember it. You can put
it back on the top of the deck.

Now do a riffle shuffle or some false cuts to control the card on top.

Next, cut the deck in half, turn the top half over and start doing a riffle
shuffle, while making sure that there is only one single card face-down at the
top of the deck (the spectator's card). Before squaring the deck, do a zarrow
shuffle or another technique that allows you to have in the deck, from top to
bottom : the spectator's card face-down, about half the deck face-up, and the
rest face-down.

To convince the spectator, cut the deck at a face-up card in 2 packets on the
table, and cut these packets 2 more times. Get the deck back together in the
same order you cut it, and show the different directions the cards are facing.

Finally, cut the deck at the natural gap due to the cards bending. Flip one of
the packet and riffle shuffle them back together, while making sure the
spectator can't see the cards, and give them a final cut.

Now spread the cards, you will see one card facing a different direction : it
will be the spectator's selected card.

## Easier version

If you can't do a zarrow shuffle or want something simpler, you can do this
version of the Triumph trick.

For this version, you can use any deck, which the spectator can shuffle. Bend
the cards a little bit if you feel they're too flat.

Start by asking the spectator to pick a card and memorize it. Place it on the
bottom of the deck face-down.

Next, with the deck face-down, take a small packet of cards in your second hand
and flip them. Take another packet and flip the whole thing. Repeat this until
you arrive at the last card (the spectator's card). Put it face-down on face-up
cards.

Show the deck to the spectator, and the different directions the cards are
facing. In reality, there are only 2 parts in the deck, separated by a little
gap due to the cards bending.

Cut the deck at this little gap and flip one of the half on the other, in order
to place the spectator's card at the middle.

You can finally spread the cards. The only card facing a different direction
will be the spectator's selected card.
